---
layout: post
title:  A less annoying alarm built with RaspberryPi and Haskell Wai
subtitle: Wale Up!
date:   2016-12-2 00:44:01
categories: [haskell, tool]
---

This is still a draft. I like to publish my draft, So I know they are out there and I need to finish writing them.

You know a thing about traditional alarms?  They don't wake you up.

Haskell vs python development experience

Debugging take 1/3 of my coding time. Haskellers pay a lot of attention to composability when writing a library. It makes you very productve because if you get type matching, chances are your code will work out of the box. In this project, the compiler was whining about type mismatch 8 out of 10 times. It becomes very intuitive because you already know where the types will mismatch before even compiling the code. To prove this to you. I will catch all the debugging sessions when I extend this capability. This reduces development time by 1/2 because you save 1/2 time debugging. You quickly become better at resolving type mismatch errors.

This is the problem with python. two library or frameworks don't play well together. 
error logs are lengthy and traverse through tens of files to produce debug traces. 
<!--

{% highlight ruby %}
def print_hi(name)
  puts "Hi, #{name}"
end
print_hi('Tom')
#=> prints 'Hi, Tom' to STDOUT.
{% endhighlight %}

Check out the [Jekyll docs][jekyll] for more info on how to get the most out of Jekyll. File all bugs/feature requests at [Jekyll’s GitHub repo][jekyll-gh]. If you have questions, you can ask them on [Jekyll’s dedicated Help repository][jekyll-help].

[jekyll]:      http://jekyllrb.com
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-help]: https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll-help
--!>
