---
layout: post
title:  Prepration for Toptal
subtitle: foo
date:   2017-04-08 00:44:01
categories: [tool]
---

It's draft yet. I like to publish my draft, So I know they are out there and I need to finish writing them.

Toptal conducts its algorithm test on Codility. Codility doesn't have haskell support. It just means leaving all the goodness I learnt over the year and practice algo in python or javascript.

Though JS and Python are equivalently bad, I choose Python for its clear syntax and data structure support. Plus its more close 
haskell then JS(even though its functional language). All the curlly braces and callbacks in Js make me sad.

> There is no royal Road to Geometry - Euclid

There no royal road to Algorithms either. 
TODO add udi manbers books exp.

### Common Mistakes I made.
* when working with matrix I took [[a11,a12]]. this translates well in Haskell. but it creates lot of "off by one error" while translating it in python. Rathere [[a00,a01,..]] is better.
* We deal with arrays a lot. arrays are good for one thing. Random access at of at any index. I make lot of off by on erros (Index Out of Range). I hope this fades away. One solution is to write part of code that deals with subscript on paper and dry run them. I waste a lot of time printing it out on screen. Also I should print statement whenever I am subscripting. The print statement should be smart. look for ittertools if they can be helpful.
* when using runner and slower. always access [i-2] instead of [i+2]
* Don't think that n^2 is bad solution. it might be the actul time complexity. So write bruteforce if you can't think of better approach

### Things that I learnt
* Choose sufficiently large example, choose 2 or 3 examples if you are not getting anywhere with the one example.
* every part of Porblem is there for a reason. No programming problems has unncessary details. If some data is given that mean it has some connection to the solution.
* you can create new test case from exisiting test case.
* if you thought of hash initially and you can't get ahead .try set and vice versa.
* Use zip and map set in dictonary
* ''.join method joins list elements with thing inside ''.
### My Approach
When I get to know a new method or data structure. I try to find an youtube video on it. Video lecture are good way to get eagle view on a toptic and if you are lucky to find a good one, It might cover a lot in depth and breaths.



### Open questions
* Codility doesn't support many library around bit array. how to solve bit manipulation problems in it?
* how does sorting works for strings with special character. is the string sorted using ASCII/unicode. how python's sorted is implimented?

### Tooling
* install code completion for vim
* Practice with Pencil on a grid size notbook. Algorithms is like solveing maths problem. You are bound to go wrong. Pen is not so good with making correction. 

###Schedule

Date | Chapter | Duration|
--- | --- | ---
10th-Apr| Array & String & Big O | 8 
11th| Linked List 8*2 | 16
12th| Stacks and Queues 6 * 2 | 12
13th - 15th| Trees & Graph 12 * 2 + 6| 30
16th - 19th| Bit Manipulations 18 *2 | 36
20th - 23th| Recursion and DP | 14 * 2 | 28
24th - 26th|sorting and searching| -
26th- 30th | moderate problems hard problems| -
1May - 30th| Problems on HackerRank and codility Toptal old problems.

### List of python library that work in Codility
* collections for High-performance container datatypes

### Things I need to learn
* Matrix operations in python.
* Master log
* Practice more problems to find Big O

### importable python library in codility
* operator
* random 
* itertools
* bisect
* sys

Most commonaly used python functions
zip, map, set
